h1. Texture Atlas Generator

A texture atlas generator/packer written in one single Java file. Currently it only supports loading and saving of PNG textures, this can easily be extended to other formats supported by Java's ImageIO class.

Besides the texture atlas, a .xml file is also generated with texture coords for all the textures.

Examples and further details are available at "my website":http://lukasz.dk/2011/04/18/texture-atlas-generator/

The texture packing algorithm used in the atlas generator is the "Lightmap Packing Algorithm":http://www.blackpawn.com/texts/lightmaps/ by "Black Pawn":http://www.blackpawn.com. The images are added to the atlas by area size (width x height), in descending order.

The source code for this application is released into the Public Domain.

h2. Building

pre. javac AtlasGenerator.java

h2. Usage

pre. AtlasGenerator <name> <width> <height> <padding> <ignorPaths> <unitCoordinates>  <directory>

h2. Example

pre. AtlasGenerator atlas 2048 2048 2 0 1 images

This will take all the PNG files in the _images_ directory next to application and pack them into one or more 2048x2048 atlases named "atlas1.png" to "atlasN.png", where N is the number of atlases generated. More than one atlas is generated if the PNG textures do not fit into one atlas.


pre. <?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<Atlas><TextureAtlas imagePath='objects1.png'>
<SubTexture name='objects/buss_1' x='0'  y='0' width='0' height='0'/>
<SubTexture name='objects/granny_1' x='0'  y='0' width='0' height='0'/>
<SubTexture name='objects/sheep_1' x='0'  y='0' width='0' height='0'/>
</TextureAtlas>
</Atlas>
